In this section, we will go over some topics related to the Ethereum network performance,
and how to use a tool called Ethstats to look into some of the network metrics.
First, it's important to understand
a few basic definitions and how they relate to the Ethereum network performance.
To do this, we will be at this URL,
ethstats.net, walking through a dashboard.
If you'd like to follow along,
I'll have enclosed the link below the video.
So, let's begin exploring the dashboard from the top left hand corner.
The numbers you see on your dashboard when you explore
might be slightly different to what you hear in this recording.
Best Block. It is the highest block number of the longest valid chains,
said differently, it is heavy with current difficulty.
Uncles or orphan blocks,
and unlike other blockchains in ethereum,
they are included and rewarded.
The dashboard displays the current block uncle count,
and that from the last 50 blocks.
Last block is the time since the last mine block.
It's in seconds.
Average block time is the average time between two blocks, excluding uncles.
It should display something in 15 seconds.
But right now it shows closer to zero seconds.
Let's browse to the right.
Okay. Average network hash rate
is the number of hashes spent by miners to find a new block.
Typically, this is shown in tera hashes.
So currently this particular dashboard is not synched,
so it's probably showing you zero kilo kilohash.
Difficulty is also known as the mining difficulty to find a new block.
Let's look at the next row, the bottom side.
Average nodes or active nodes is just the number of nodes connected to the
dashboard.The total number of active connected nodes powering the network is quite high.
So right now you see 15 nodes are active. Yes.
Next one is gas price.
That's the price the miners are currently accepting.
Currently it's at six or 7.5 gwei,
which is 60 gigawei,
which is 6 billion rei.
So, the default is 20. The.
Next one is gas limit.
Gas limit is the gas limit for a block.
The dashboard reads 8,000,029.
And the miner can include transactions until the block is full and limit is met.
The default is formally in 712388,
which is 1.5 pound million gas.
In bitcoin, you might have come across block size limit.
So this is quite similar.
So let's look at the next one.
Page latency.
It takes 130 milliseconds,
which is the dashboard stat.
Uptime is also a dashboard stat.
And then you'll see a map in here.
It's a global map where all these nodes that are connecting into the dashboard.
It's just a dot represents which ones are connected to these dashboards right now.
Okay, let's let's look at the next one,
which is block time.
In my dashboard it's not currently showing up.
But currently, it maps out to the actual time between blocks.
So we looked at- it's less than zero seconds,
so that's probably why it's not showing up.
Difficulty chart.
That maps the actual difficulty of previous blocks.
The next one is block propagation chart.
That's for the nodes connected to the dashboard.
It is how fast the blocks are shared or propagated between nodes.
The last block mines displays the public key
of the miners who found the most number of blocks.
Right? Okay.
We went through the maps,
so let's come back to the next row which is uncle count chart.
It's got a green and blues in here.
The uncle count chart displays the number of uncles per 25 blocks per bar.
So each bar is five uncles per 25 blocks.
Next one is transactions.
That displays the number of transactions included in the previous blocks.
The gas spending chart would show you
something that's correlated to the transaction charts,
and it displays the amount of spent gas.
The gas limit chart over here is dynamic
in nature and it shows gas limit for the previous blocks.
Please note, this dashboard does not represent the entire state of the Ethereum network,
but it gives you a very good handle on what's happening.
Should you choose to,
you can volunteer to connect to your node,
to the dashboard for which you need to run
an Ethereum node in your machine or in a cloud.
The next set of rows over here that you see are basically in tabular format.
So feel free to spend some time here,
get to know the dashboard well and how
the various numbers change as the network continues to perform.
Okay, so let's wrap this up.
In this lesson we've covered the Ethereum network performance,
dove into some of the metrics in how to inspect it.
This tool and metrics will come handy when you start building your projects.
In the next lesson,
we will cover how transaction life cycle works in Ethereum.